Headshot Booster:
The bonus headshot damage does not apply to enemy Troopers, or any other NPC in possession of a headshot hitbox.
The bonus headshot damage is affected by your Hero's Damage Falloff variables.

Monster Rounds:
Monster Rounds applies additional damage to Non-Player Characters. This includes Troopers, Neutral entities including the Mid-Boss, as well as lane structures and team objectives such as Guardians, Walkers, Shrines, and the Patron.
The bonus Bullet Resist has no effect against Walkers, Shrines, the Patron, Graves' Ghouls or McGinnis' Turrets, since they deal Spirit Damage.

Restorative Shot:
Restorative Shot goes on cooldown regardless if the bullet hits a target.

Active Reload:
If the player presses the reload button while outside the highlighted section, the item will fail to reload. The item only goes into cooldown once the effect is activated.
The duration of the Active Reload activation window is always 0.3s. The highlighted section changes size proportionately to the hero's Reload Time.

Intensifying Magazine:
Intensifying Magazine ramps up the bonus weapon damage from 0% to 45% while the player holds down the Fire button and their weapon is in a firing state. Some abilities will still flag the hero as "firing" while the character isn't actually firing, but if the user continues to hold down their Fire button then they will continue charging up their bonus weapon damage. This can be used to charge up the bonus damage before a fight or maintain the bonus damage for longer.

List of abilities that continue to allow building Intensifying Magazine damage during casting despite not shooting:
 Bebop's  Exploding Uppercut
 Vindicta's  Assassinate (while scoped in)
 McGinnis'  Spectral Wall (Must be holding Fire before casting the wall)
 Venator'  Ira Domini (Hold down fire between bolts)
Pressing the Alt-Fire button will not increase the bonus weapon damage, but players can hold both Fire and Alt-Fire at the same time. This will cause heroes to continuously use their Alternate fire but still build bonus damage.

Mystic Shot:
The item provides a passive effect that creates an additional bullet when the hero shoots their weapon, and the additional bullet will mimic the bullets created by the current weapon. The Mystic Shot bullet appears as a glowing purple version of the hero's regular bullets.

For most weapons, the Mystic bullet can follow the trajectory of any bullet, which can make it fly off-center for weapons with significant spread over time, such as  McGinnis'. The exception are spreadshot weapons such as  Abrams' and  Shiv's, in which the Mystic pellet is always fired at the center of the crosshair.

For explosive alternate fire weapons such as  Viscous' and  Yamato's, the Mystic bullet will appear the same but cannot deal damage in an area. Instead, it only deals the Spirit damage to the closest enemy to impact.

The Mystic bullet hits before regular bullets. So for example,  Bullet Resist Shredder's effect is applied first and amplifies the weapon damage, but  Crippling Headshot's Spirit Resist reduction is applied after and does not amplify Mystic Shot's spirit damage.

The additional Mystic bullet cannot deal critical (headshot) damage and is not affect by  Ricochet.

A Mystic bullet is immune to evasion.

Recharging Rush:
The replenishment effect only triggers when damaging enemy heroes.

Spirit Shredder Bullets:
The Spirit Lifesteal from the debuff is not independent of the diminishing returns from other sources of spirit lifesteal.
The debuff can be applied with melee attacks, as well as abilities that are considered melee attacks.

Split Shot:
Multishots can hit units as well, but they do not grant stacks.
Each shot is separated by approximately 5°, leading to a total of approximately 20° spread between the furthest two shots.

Stalker:
Stalker's damage triggers any "on spirit damage" effects like  Mystic Slow or  Bullet Resist Shredder.
Stalker's "Close Range" is affected by Ability Range.
Stalker procs off Melee Damage.

Alchemical Fire:
With no other items, Alchemical Fire (with its default +10 Spirit Power) deals a total of 384 Spirit Damage.
Alchemical Fire deals damage instantly on contact, and then every 0.5 seconds thereafter, for a total of 10 damage instances.
With no duration extenders, Alchemical Fire finishes dealing damage at 4.5 seconds in (the final 0.5 seconds applies the weapon damage effect only).
Alchemical Fire ramps up its damage gradually, starting at 50% of the max dps at the start, and dealing max dps (100%) from 3.0 seconds and onward.
With duration extenders, Alchemical Fire will continue dealing damage in further 0.5 sec intervals, e.g. at 5.0 sec, 5.5 sec, 6.0 sec, etc. These damage instances will keep using the max dps values.

Berserker:
Gaining new Berserker stacks refreshes the duration of all already-existing Berserker stacks. It is possible to maintain max stacks by continuing to take damage.
Stacks are calculated before damage resistance effects such as Bullet Resist and Spirit Resist, but not Invulnerability.
For example, this means that it is still possible to gain stacks even with Metal Skin active.
For example, this means that it is NOT possible to gain stacks with Ethereal Shift active.

Blood Tribute:
Unlike most active items, Blood Tribute has no cooldown or duration limit and instead can be toggled on and off indefinitely.
However, toggling Blood Tribute does not build up stacks of  Spellslinger.
The health drain cannot kill its user.

Cultist Sacrifice:
Using Cultist Sacrifice on an NPC gives the player the full soul bounty plus 180% (280% total). The original bounty and the bonus are displayed as two separate values when activated.
The bonus souls from Cultist Sacrifice are secured souls.
The buff persists through death.
Cultist Sacrifice applies additional damage to Non-Player Characters. This includes Troopers, neutral entities like Neutrals and Mid-Boss, as well as lane structures and team objectives such as Guardians, Walkers, Shrines, and the Patron.
Most player-created NPCs (summons) can also be consumed for the bonus souls (see list below).
The bonus Bullet Resist has no effect against Walkers, the Patron, and  Graves',  McGinnis' and  Rem's summons, since they deal Spirit Damage.
Cultist Sacrifice's active counts as Spirit Damage. This means it can activate on-hit spirit damage procs such as  Spirit Burn.

Escalating Resilience:
Passive Bullet Resist Stacks can only be gained once per shot, meaning spread fire weapons like  Abrams,  Pocket, and characters using  Split Shot can't gain several stacks in one shot. This also includes characters like  Viscous and  Yamato, who have alt-fire modes on their weapons that cause explosive damage.

Hunter's Aura:
Passive Radius is affected by Ability Range.

Shadow Weave:
Targeted abilities such as  Mo & Krill's  Combo and  Curse's active effect still work as normal on heroes in stealth.
The increase in fire rate after ending stealth is gradual, increasing to to the full 30% after about half a second.

Spirit Rend:
All stacks are refreshed with each new stack.
Spirit Rend's second passive's resist reduction stacks additively with each stack, however, the final sum stacks multiplicatively with the base resist reduction from the first passive.
Getting a headshot with  Ricochet will not apply stacks to the secondary targets, but will still apply the non-stacking debuff.
As with  Spirit Shredder Bullets, the primary passive debuffs can be applied by melee attacks and abilities that deal melee damage.

Tesla Bullets:
Shock Damage is considered Spirit Damage and is reduced by Spirit Resist.
Although in general Tesla Bullets deals higher DPS the higher the Fire Rate, the scale is not linear. There are points at which having a higher fire rate will result in lower DPS, since more bullets will be shot during the cooldown.

Toxic Bullets:
Bleed damage can kill.
The bleed effect is indicated by puddles of blood dropping from the player.
Bleed damage applies or "ticks" every half-second, dealing slightly over 1.2% max health spirit damage per tick. This means that, by default, bleed applies damage six times every time it is successfully built up for 7.5% max health spirit damage.
Bleed Damage is considered Spirit Damage and is reduced by Spirit Resist.
The duration of the bleed is affected by the Ability Duration stat, such as from Superior Duration. The extra damage is applied proportionally. For instance, since Superior Duration adds .84 seconds to the bleed effect, the bleed will deal 2.1% extra spirit damage for a total of 9.6% max health spirit damage.
Headshots do not affect the Build-Up per shot.
Does not build-up with melee hits, unlike other weapon build-up items ( Slowing Bullets etc.)
Bleed does not build on any structures, such as Guardians and Walkers. Mid-boss is also immune to bleed.
Bleed does build on Troopers and Denizens, but deals 50% damage.
The healing reduction only applies while the target is bleeding.
The healing reduction stacks with other sources of healing reduction. For instance,  Healbane and Toxic Bullets will apply a healing reduction effect of 55%.
The buildup per shot is also affected by weapon falloff, requiring more shots for the bleed to occur at further distances. Once applied, the bleed damage itself is unaffected by distance.
For heroes with spreadshot weapons ( Abrams,  Calico,  Yamato, etc.), the listed bleed buildup applies on a shot where every pellet hits its target. The buildup is divided evenly between each pellet and missing one pellet will proportionally decrease buildup.
For characters with burst-fire weapons ( Lash,  Seven, etc.), the listed bleed buildup applies for each bullet rather than each burst. Landing a full burst as Lash, for instance, will build 45.9% of bleed on a target.
For characters with splash damage alternate fire weapons ( Viscous and  Yamato), the listed bleed buildup applies in full regardless of whether a target was hit directly or indirectly with a shot.
 Shiv's alt-fire builds bleed identically to his primary fire.

Armor Piercing Rounds:
Armor Piercing Rounds does not damage enemies in Invincible state.
Armor Piercing Rounds bypasses bullet evasion.

Capacitor:
Shock Damage is considered Spirit Damage and is reduced by Spirit Resist.
Although in general Capacitor deals higher DPS the higher the Fire Rate, the scale is not linear. There are points at which having a higher fire rate will result in lower DPS, since more bullets will be shot during the cooldown.[1]
Movement Silence sets a player's Gravity Scale to 120% (makes them heavier), regardless of their base gravity. This especially affects  Celeste and  Ivy, who have innate gravity reduction.
Movement Silence removes the knockback movement from  Shiv's alt-fire.

Crippling Headshot:
The headshot damage is applied first before the debuff, meaning that the initial headshot will not benefit from the bullet resist reduction

Lucky Shot:
The Bonus Damage is based on the total bullet damage and is not a Weapon Damage bonus.
Headshot damage is considered a crit and is not taken into account for the bonus damage calculation (the lucky damage cannot crit and does the same bonus damage no matter where you hit).
Lucky Shot is immune to Bullet Evasion.

Ricochet:
Bullet based procs and effects are applied to ricocheted shots (with some exceptions such as  Seven's  Power Surge and  Tesla Bullets).
Bullets do not bounce off of objectives.

Silencer:
Silencer's Damage Reduction Debuff effect on Spirit Damage will apply to enemy players with Unstoppable activated; But only the Damage Debuff portion is applied, the Silenced aspect will not take effect.

Healing Rite:
The heal gets dispelled even if the damage was absorbed by a barrier.

Rebuttal:
Rebuttal procs when parrying  Viscous'  Puddle Punch.
Rebuttal does not proc when parrying abilities with  Counterspell.

Healing Booster:
Healing booster affects Bullet Lifesteal and Spirit Lifesteal
Healing booster affects Health Regen only if it's a temporary effect (e.g.  Frozen Shelter). It does not affect constant regen acquired from most items and rare abilities.
Healing Booster increases the effect of healing applied to allies as well as the caster, but owning Healing Booster does not increase the healing received from an ally.

Restorative Locket:
Non-Active Abilities and Items do not trigger this passive effect.
The 35m range is not affected by range increases (e.g.  Greater Expansion).

Return Fire:
Damage Reflection Mechanics
Returns the attacker's pre-mitigation damage (original damage before your resistances apply)
Example: If an enemy deals 100 Bullet Damage while you have 30% Bullet Resist, you reflect 65 damage, and you take 70.
Works even with 100% damage immunity (e.g.,  Metal Skin reflects full damage while preventing damage to the user).
Damage returned ignores Debuffs that increase Weapon Damage against the target, such as  Haze's  Fixation.
Does not apply build-up or stacking effects against the attacker.

Trophy Collector:
The in-game UI displays +0.2 Sprint Speed and +0.8% Ability Range per stack. These are incorrect and are result of rounding.

A list of units affected by the damage reduction: NPCs

Weapon Shielding:
Melee Damage counts for Weapon Shielding's damage threshold.

Counterspell:
Counterspell is visually indicated by a purple bubble VFX replacing the default parry effect.
Counterspell only goes on cooldown on a successful spell parry.
The player can parry multiple abilities during the Counterspell parry window. The heal and buffs are only applied for the first parry.

Majestic Leap:
Majestic Leap is silenced by  Slowing Hex (though the silence is shorter than Leap's damage interruption).

Metal Skin:
Metal Skin does not provide Bullet Evasion. It blocks Weapon Damage, but on-bullet-hit effects and Build-Ups such as  Haze's  Fixation,  Mirage's  Djinn's Mark or  Slowing Bullets are still applied.
Metal Skin does not block  Paradox's  Kinetic Carbine, since it deals Spirit Damage.

Stamina Mastery:
Stamina Mastery contains the +23% Air Dash Distance stat, and increases the number of Air Dashes and Air Jumps that can be performed before touching the ground from one to two.

The +23% Air Dash Distance stat improves the speed of Instant Air Dashes and Zipline Momentum Conservation rollouts greatly.

Veil Walker:
Veil Walker's detection range has a radius of 20m.

Warp Stone:
Warp Stone is silenced by  Slowing Hex.

Colossus:
While active, a teal-colored circle appears around the hero to indicate the border of the enemy movement slowing effect.
Colossus' bonus base Health is applied only to the player's starting base health and health gained by Boons. Health gained by abilities, items, Vitality item investments or Golden Statue buffs is not accounted for.
Activating this item cancels the windup of your heavy melee attack.

Diviner's Kevlar:
The spirit scaling buff from Diviner's Kevlar has some inconsistent interactions. For example:
 Abrams'  Siphon Life and  Shoulder Charge will use the current spirit power when the ability does damage.
 Bebop's  Sticky Bomb will benefit from the bonus spirit power even if Diviner's Kevlar expires before the bomb explodes, as long as the bomb was applied prior to it expiring.
 Infernus'  Flame Dash will also reflect the current spirit power bonus when the ability does damage.

Healing Tempo:
The bonus fire rate applies to allied  McGinnis'  Mini Turrets, but not allied Troopers.

Inhibitor:
Inhibitor's Damage Reduction Debuff effect will apply to enemy players with Unstoppable activated.

Phantom Strike:
Phantom Strike is silenced by  Slowing Hex.
When activated, there is a short animation and delay before the hero is teleported.

Plated Armor:
The chance for Deflection and On-hit Prevention is rolled individually, although Deflection will prevent most effects that On-hit prevention does. They can both trigger at the same time. This is most evident when testing  Headhunter against Plated Armor.
If a bullet is deflected, it will fly off in a different direction, maintaining its damaging capability.

Siphon Bullets:
Shooting an enemy hero deals 2.5% max HP damage and applies the Siphon Bullets debuff, which reduces the target's max HP by the amount of damage dealt, and increases the user's max HP while healing them by the same amount.

The max HP steal lasts for 17 seconds (affected by Debuff Resist), refreshes on subsequent applications, and stacks infinitely. Stealing max HP from an enemy places the effect on a 1.2s cooldown (affected by Item Cooldown Reduction).

Each application will steal up to 2.5% max HP from afflicted targets, but the amount siphoned is reduced with falloff and the flat damage dealt may interact with certain passives.

For each instance of max HP steal on an enemy, the user gains the same amount of max HP, equal to the stolen health. When an enemy has their max HP steal duration refreshed, the whole amount of max HP that was gained from that enemy also has its duration refreshed. If max HP has been gained from multiple enemies, refreshing the steal duration on one enemy will only refresh the duration of all max HP gained from that specific target, and the buff indicator will show the duration of the instance with the least time left.

Unstoppable:
Unstoppable is not usable when the player loses control of their character, such as when asleep or stunned. Instead, it should be used in anticipation of these abilities to prevent them from working.
Most non-movement Status Effects, such as resistance reduction or Healing Reduction are not suppressed. There are exceptions, e.g. Unstoppable prevents some forms of Damage Reduction ( Inhibitor), but not the others ( Fire Scarabs). More testing is required.
Channelled abilities such as  Dynamo's  Singularity will affect the hero if Unstoppable's active ends while the ability is still ongoing.
Unstoppable's active prevents players from being stunned after being parried.
If an ability does damage and applies a negative effect, Unstoppable only prevents the effect but does not block the damage.
Unstoppable's acitve effect also grants the user immunity to the Interrupt status effect.
Unstoppable is not removed by  Cursed Relic and blocks all of its effects, including the removal of non-ultimate buffs.

Vampiric Burst:
Using Vampiric Burst while reloading instantly stops the reload. This cannot trigger  Active Reload's effect.
Added ammo is affected by bonus Ammo from items and other sources. For example, having  Titanic Magazine makes Vampiric Burst give 2x of it's usual ammo.

Witchmail:
Witchmail's random mechanic does not target abilities that are not on cooldown. This means that having only one ability on cooldown guarantees that only that ability will get its cooldown reduced by Witchmail.
The damage required to trigger Witchmail's passive is pre-mitigated, meaning it's not negatively affected by the player's Damage Resistance.

Golden Goose Egg:
The soul value starts at Souls 400. These initial souls do not count towards the buffs gained.
It takes 4m 27s for its value to match its cost (Souls 800).
It does not provide buffs in testing modes.

Mystic Burst:
Mystic Burst is a Charge-Up item, thus not affected by Cooldown Reduction.
Heroes with Spirit Lifesteal will heal from Mystic Burst's passive effect triggering.
A small lightning shock visual is applied to the enemy hero when it is hit by Mystic Burst's passive effect.
When the target is hit with spirit damage, the damage value which is compared against the triggering threshold is the base damage value prior to any increases or decreases from damage amp, damage reduction, spirit resistance, and spirit resistance reduction.
Damage amp and spirit resist reduction will not help you in achieving the damage threshold to trigger the passive.
Damage reduction and the target's spirit resistance will not prevent the passive from triggering when it otherwise would.
While the tooltip only specifies 'Abilities', only Spirit Damage will activate Mystic Burst. Abilities dealing weapon damage - such as  Venator's  Consecrating Grenade or  Viscous'  Puddle Punch - will not activate Mystic Burst.
The additional damage, and the ability which triggered the additional damage, are applied to the target as separate instances of damage. The additional damage from Mystic Burst is dealt after the original spell damage.

Arcane Surge:
Items and passive abilities cannot benefit from the conditional buff - they will not gain additional spirit power, duration, or range.
The buff which provides the player with the conditional ability range, ability duration, and spirit power lasts for 7 seconds.
The first ability cast after gaining the buff will consume the buff.
The conditional ability range, ability duration, and spirit power are snapshot on ability use.
The conditional spirit power is applied to the ability for its entire duration. This includes abilities that care about changes in the player's spirit power after its initial casting.

Bullet Resist Shredder:
This is not a stacking effect, repeated applications will refresh the duration of the debuff.
The debuff can be utilized by other players. Teammates can benefit from this debuff.

Cold Front:
The wave expands out from the hero, reaching the maximum radius after about a second.
The damage and effect is applied to enemies when the wave hits them, making it possible to be avoided if the hero is fast enough.

Compress Cooldown:
If Compress Cooldown is imbued on  Sinclair's  Audience Participation, it does not reduce the cooldown of copied ultimates, only the default cooldown of the ability.

Mystic Vulnerability:
Unlike  Escalating Exposure, Mystic Vulnerability does not cause a stacking effect. Hitting the enemy with additional spirit damage after the debuff has been applied will only refresh the duration.
Escalating Exposure's debuff takes priority over the Mystic Vulnerability debuff, so if two players have each of these items they will not stack together on the same target.

Quicksilver Reload:
Quicksilver Reload is a Charge-Up item, thus not affected by Cooldown Reduction.
Quicksilver Reload's bonus Spirit Damage will only trigger when the imbued ability first deals Weapon Damage or Spirit Damage to the target. If the initial damage is reduced to 0 (rounded down) or only deals Pure Damage (i.e.  Lady Geist's  Soul Exchange), Quicksilver Reload's bonus Spirit Damage is not applied.
Abilities that do not deal damage still trigger the instant reload and bonus Fire Rate effects.
The passive buff has a fixed duration of 12 seconds and is not affected by cooldown reduction.

Slowing Hex:
Movement Silence sets a player's Gravity Scale to 120% (makes them heavier), regardless of their base gravity. This especially affects  Celeste and  Ivy, who have innate gravity reduction.
Movement Silence removes the knockback movement from  Shiv's alt-fire.

Decay:
Though Decay is not supposed to proc item effects, it does proc  Spirit Burn.

Disarming Hex:
Like other sources of Disarm, Disarming Hex affects abilities that modify the player's primary fire, such as  Venator's  Ira Domini and  Paradox's  Kinetic Carbine. However, it does not affect abilities that deal Weapon Damage without primary fire, such as  Haze's  Bullet Dance or  Venator's  Consecrating Grenade and  Gutshot. It also doesn't affect  Vindicta's  Assassinate.
Disarming Hex reduces  Shiv's potential mobility by preventing him from using his alt-fire.

Knockdown:
The bonus stun duration scales based on the target's height when hit, reaching its maximum +1.5s duration against targets 30m or higher in the air.

Arctic Blast:
Despite label saying "Freezing and then Slowing targets", the slow happens at the same time as the freeze.
The slow is identical to  Cold Front, that is a 4s, 60% Move Slow.

Boundless Spirit:
Currently, it is the only item that gives the player a percentage of their current Spirit Power.
- It's applied to all sources of Spirit Power granted to the player at all times, including temporary sources.
- It stacks multiplicatively with abilities that also grant bonus % Spirit Power, such as  Rem's  Tag Along (T3) and  Kelvin's  Ice Path (T3).

Echo Shard:
Echo Shard restores only one charge for abilities that use charges (e.g.  Holliday's  Powder Keg).

Escalating Exposure:
The unique amplified damage from Escalating Exposure is a separate instance of damage, applied after the original spirit damage.
The user that most recently started applying stacks' icon will be the only one shown to the entire team.
The user with stacks applied to them will only see the combined total of Escalating Exposure stacks on them, not each player's individual count.

Ethereal Shift:
During Ethereal Shift, caster can only float around slowly at 3 m/s. Caster does not fall if mid-air. The caster can still turn their camera and character.
Casting Ethereal Shift does not reset jump/dash, even if mid-air when cast.
Casting Ethereal Shift cancels any abilities currently being channeled.
Ethereal Shift does not interrupt "aura" effects such as  Victor's  Aura of Suffering,  Warden's  Last Stand or  Abrams'  Siphon Life, allowing heroes to be invulnerable while using these abilities.

Focus Lens:
Removing Focus Lens with  Dispel Magic or purge abilities still deals damage.

Lightning Scroll:
The "Mystic Slow effects" listed in the tooltip include the -12% Dash Distance Reduction, though it's not directly listed in the item description.[1]
 Drifter,  Kelvin,  Mirage,  Pocket, and  Yamato cannot buy Lightning Scroll, as their ultimates cannot trigger its passive effect.
Notable interactions

 Lady Geist's  Soul Exchange does not trigger Lightning Scroll, though she can still buy it. This may be due to Geist's ult only dealing Pure Damage.
Lightning Scroll does trigger for ultimates that deal Pure Damage otherwise, such as  Shiv's  Killing Blow execution, if the player survives with  Cheat Death.
 Silver triggers Lightning Scroll whenever any ability or attack hits an enemy while she is transformed.
 Vindicta's  Assassinate triggers Lightning Scroll independently for every shot, including shots on the same target.

Magic Carpet:
Magic Carpet is silenced by  Slowing Hex.
Abilities using Confirm Cast or Quick Cast can be "prepared" while on the carpet, since they aren't cast until the Fire button is pressed or the ability button is released respectively.
 Vindicta's  Assassinate does not cast until the Fire button is pressed, allowing her to scope in and not dismiss the carpet. Magic Carpet is affected by the ability's Move Speed limit, but also overrides the scoped camera, causing Assassinate to fire slightly left of the on-screen crosshair.

Mercurial Magnum:
Mercurial Magnum is a Charge-Up item, thus not affected by Cooldown Reduction.
Mercurial Magnum will always give the full Spirit damage on bullet hit bonus, regardless of charge-up.
The passive buff has a fixed duration of 12 seconds.

Mystic Reverb:
The debuff effect is applied to the first enemy hit. If the imbued ability is an area-of-effect and it hits multiple heroes, only one enemy will receive the debuff.

Refresher:
Refresher has a 0.6s. delay between activating the item and the cooldowns being refreshed. Any abilities activated during the delay will be refreshed. Being interrupted during this will not prevent Refresher from resetting cooldowns.

Scourge:
Only one instance of Scourge can be active on a hero and its effects do not stack.

Transcendant Cooldown:
When bought, Cooldown Reduction is applied retroactively to abilities already on cooldown.
It reduces all item cooldowns, for both passive and active effects.
It does not affect Charge-Up items, such as  Tankbuster and  Mercurial Magnum.

Vortex Web:
Vortex Web can be cast at a target enemy player with alt-cast (RMB), pulling other enemies towards them.
The Vortex Web model is an octopus that pulls players with its arms.
Movement Silence sets a player's Gravity Scale to 120% (makes them heavier), regardless of their base gravity. This especially affects  Celeste and  Ivy, who have innate gravity reduction.
Movement Silence removes the knockback movement from  Shiv's alt-fire.